# InventorySystem

# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The app is an inventory management app, and the requirements were that it would include a login screen which would allow a new user to create a new username and password easily, that it would then display inventory information in a grid, allowing users to update individual records in some way, allowing users to add new records, and allowing users to delete records.  The app also needed to include the ability to send SMS messages, managing the user's preferences and prompting the user for appropriate permissions.  The app is designed to meet the needs of a user who needs to keep track of the products in stock, the product names, product numbers, and the quantities of each product.  The SMS messages were implemented to send a message whenever a product ran out of stock, helping users know when to order additional product.  The users can also add new items to the inventory or remove ones which they no longer plan to stock.  

# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
The app required a login screen, a new user account screen, an inventory grid screen, a settings screen, and an update product quantity screen.  The deletion functionality was implemented using a contextual action bar on the inventory grid screen triggered by a long click.  Navigating between the screens is intuitive and driven by intents designed to establish and maintain a clean workflow.  The UI designs prioritized clarity and ease-of-use.

# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
I started with some rough sketches of the UI for different activities, then I started working on individual components following the MVC design pattern.  As I began coding each component, I performed some basic unit testing, followed by integration testing as soon as I had new components which could work together to conduct more complex functionality.  I tested frequently to make sure I stayed on the right track, and I wasn't afraid to step back and make some changes to components which I thought were completed but could benefit from some modifications.

# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I wasnte to implement JUNit tests during this project, but the assignments made for a tight schedule so I opted for testing longer components or component groups using the AVD emulator in Android Studio.  I created stop points and worked through the stack trace whenever I ran into trouble identifying the cause of problems along the way.  Frequest testing is the only way I can conceive of ensuring that the project is on track.  

# Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
I had to innovate frequently since this project led me into new territory almost every step of the way.  This was my first android app, so I spent dozens of hours pouring through documentation on the Android Developers site as well as performing additional web research.  I took basic ideas and worked on grafting them into my project, finding hundreds of ways that didn't work, trying to understand why, then trying a modification.  Flexibility and dedication were my keywords for this project. 

# In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I believe the database model and the controller for the login, new user, and inventory grid activities were particularly successful.  I endeavored to comment clearly and effectively and establish a solid foundation for future releases of the app as well as creating my own framework to modify and implement in other similar apps in the future.  
